PAGE 1
Introduction 3
System Requirements 3
Minimum Configuration: 3
Recommended Configuration: 3
Installing the Game  3
Storyline   4
The Empire  4
The Mountain Clans  5
The Legions of the Damned  6
The Undead Hordes  7
Main Menu 8
The Single Player Menu 8
Pre-War Preparations  8
The Lord Selection Screen 8
The Story Begins 10
The Adventure Interface 12
Map/Resources  13
Objective  13
Options  13
Display Flags  14
Cast Spell 14
Diplomacy Screen  15
Capital City  16
Plant Rod  16
Exchange Between Parties  16
Guard  16
End Turn  16
Continue Move  16
Use Staff or Scroll  16
Select Next Leader  17
The Capital City 17
City Defenses  19
Exploring the Land  20
Paperdoll  20
Movement and Terrain Type 22
Resources 22
Transforming the Land 22
Planting and Removing Rods 23
The Game Landscape 23
Other Areas of Interest 25
Combat 25
The Thief 26
Aftermath 27
PAGE 2
Disciples II : Dark Prophecy is a turn-based strategy game in which you guide the role of one
of four races struggling for survival and dominance of your war-torn world. You will create
armies to conquer and control territory, hire powerful Mages and Warriors, develop your
fledgling cities, and lead your race to glory. Using a careful balance of diplomacy, resource
management, magic, and military might, you will strive to etch your name in the long and
bloody history of Nevendaar.
Minimum Configuration:
• Windows 95/98/2000/XP
• Pentium II 233 MHz 
• 32 Mb RAM
• 200 Mb hard disk space
• DirectX 7.1
• 16-bit sound card
• CD-ROM drive quad speed or more
• V ideo Card with 8Mb RAM
Recommended Configuration:
• Windows 95/98/2000/XP
• Pentium II 300 MHz 
• 64 Mb RAM
• 400 Mb hard disk space
• DirectX 7.1
• 16-bit sound card
• CD-ROM drive quad speed or more
• V ideo Card with 16Mb RAM
Follow these steps to install Disciples II: Dark Prophecy :
1. Launch Windows '95, '98, 2000 or XP.
2. Insert the Disciples II: Dark Prophecy CD in your CD-ROM drive.
3. The installation program should appear onscreen automatically. If it doesn't, double-click
on the setup program on the CD-ROM.
4. Choose the right configuration for your system and click OK. The higher the installation
level, the more space the game will take up on your hard disk. However, you’ll enjoy
quicker load times.
5. When installation is complete, click Play. Next, select Disciples II: Dark Prophecy in the
Windows Start Menu to launch the game.
Experience 27
Building Structures  28
Leader Advancement  30
Multiplayer 31
Hotseat 31
The Multiplayer Menu 31
Host 31
Join Quest 32
Load Quest 32
Appendix 1: Units Descriptions 33
Appendix 2: Units Statistics 38
The Empire 38
The Mountain Clans 42
The Legions of the Damned 47
The Undead Hordes 51
Appendix 3: Upgrades Descriptions 57
Hot Keys 58
Credits 59
Troubleshooting and Technical Support 61
LICENSE AGREEMENT AND LIMITED WARRANTY 62
PAGE 3
Living quietly atop the highest peaks of Nevendaar, the Mountain Clans had always kept to
themselves. Not out of malice or ill-will. It was simply their nature not to meddle in the affairs
of men. But with the discovery of new iron mines south of Timoric, the production of
Dwarven crafts drastically increased. Supply must meet demand, and the lowland people
demanded the quality of iron goods that only the Dwarves could produce. And the pride of
the Dwarves would not allow the world to be deprived of their magnificent craftsmanship. 
And then Memnor, that oldest and wisest of Dwarves, had a dream that boded ill for all of the
Mountain Clans. The word went out, carried along the cold thin air of the Dwarven heights,
that Memnor himself would announce his prophecy from the summit of the Griffin Heights.
The mines stopped production, and the loud clanging of hammer and anvil was replaced by
the weak but commanding voice of Memnor. Pale and trembling, his voice traveled easily over
the cold thin mountain air. He spoke of the Ragnarok: the great destruction. The end of the
world was coming, said Memnor. These words, so calmly spoken, would have created a
frenzy of laughter among the skeptical Dwarves had any but Memnor uttered them. But there
was only dreadful hush. Even the icy winds – those gusts that strike pride in the hearts of
Dwarves – fell silent. 
The salvation of the Mountain Clans resided in the knowledge of the runes, said Memnor. But
all knew that the knowledge of the runes had been long-forgotten, and the scholars who
might interpret them lay buried in their icy tombs… 
From the abode of the dead they came forth – nameless, faceless, merciless horrors. Hastily
assembled bands of heroes ventured into Hela’s forsaken realm in search of the Runes of
Wisdom. What they encountered there no mortal can say; but what they discovered upon their
return has already been carved in stone that future generations will never forget. The
shambling corpse-men of the fleshless goddess Mortis had marched upon the Dwarven
heights. Their once proud kingdom now lay barren and scorched before their sullen eyes.
Valkyries saddled on their winged steeds descended from Wotan’s domain in search of the
fallen. This was the Wolf-Age, for in these dire times gods were created and heroes were
made; and the carrion wolves fed upon the weak. The King himself was slain, and with him
many of his most courageous warriors.  
Despairing but not defeated, the Mountain Clans moved deep into the underground city of
Svatalfaheim. Here, it is said, they patiently wait for their fallen warriors to return.  
“The gates of Hell have been sealed, and the four races have staggered, bloody but
victorious, to their respective homes. They are greeted by ruins, for the war has savaged
the land.”
The History of Nevendaar 
The little that is known of the terrible calamities of Nevendaar comes down to us in the
writings of a poor but literate monk named Illuthen. His History and Songs, believed to be
written during the period just prior to the events chronicled in Disciples II: Dark Prophecy ,
are the only surviving history of this period. From his words, we have been able to assemble
a vivid picture of that dark age. 
An entire generation has been raised without knowledge of the Empire’s Golden Age, when
their ancestors lived peacefully alongside the Mountain Clans, and there was harmony in
every far-flung corner of the land. The Golden Age reached back long into the past, but for
this generation, fed on fear, and lulled to an anxious sleep by the dire prophecies of the
Elders, it is a mythical time. 
“The accursed angel, riding his fiery steed, will curse the land, and the poisoned soil
shall harvest beasts and demons.”
For this generation, these words mark the beginning of the Empire’s history. Everything
before is a fantasy. Shortly after the Elders pronounced that the time of the prophecy was
nigh, an infernal rift ripped through the length of the Empire. The “beasts and demons” of
the prophecy poured forth. The Great Wars had begun. No strategies or tactics, no heroes,
no glorious tales of battle have come down to us. Perhaps there were none. As the survivors
tell it, it was only be sheer force of the Soul and Arm that the Empire succeeded in sealing
the gate to Hell. 
N o w, ten long years have passed. Famine and plague ravage the once fastidiously tilled lands of
the Empire. While the young people fashion new scabbards for their gleaming swords, the Elders
merely look skyward, to the Highfather . Surely he would never allow such horrors to once again
plague his favored land? But this favored land is now torn apart by internal strife. Petty nobles
and brigand lords have established their own empires. Thousands of years in the making, the
once proud and united Empire is but a distant memory. The King, having lost his consort and
only son during the wars, languishes in self-imposed isolation in his castle’s highest tower. 
What did the Highfather demand of his subjects? Blood, it seemed. For it is in these dire times
that the unholy enemies of the Empire struck anew…
PAGE 4
Somewhere near the beginning of time, Mortis, that name which now causes even the most
stout-hearted to tremble, was the goddess of Life. She ruled the elder race with her husband,
Gallean, and they were as one being, such was their devotion to each other. But Wotan, god
of the Mountain Clans, coveted the glorious lands of Mortis and Gallean. Certain that only by
severing the bond between Mortis and her consort would he be able to wrest control of the
lands, Wotan transformed himself into a wolf and tore out the heart of Gallean. With godly
might, he hurled the still-beating heart into the sun, that it would never be recovered. But
Mortis, in her grief, followed the heart, and was consumed by fire… 
In the arid lands south of the realm there existed a prosperous civilization of mystics called
the Alkmaar. With a mere wave of her skeletal hand, Mortis unleashed the plague on these
quiet and unsuspecting people. Within weeks, thousands lay dead and dying. Other cities
rapidly followed. Just as there had once been no limit to Mortis’s ability to create new life,
there was now no end to the savage ways she devised to inflict suffering and death on others
– the very creatures she had once created. The goddess of life had found a new purpose… 
Engrossed in her own world of hatred and misery, Mortis set about creating a hideous army;
her warriors were the desolate dead, many of them victims of Mortis’s own wicked hand.
There would be no afterlife for these wretched souls; they marched ever onwards, fulfilling
the vengeful fantasies of their dark mistress. Her shambling soldiers decimated the terrified
Mountain Clan warriors, and Wotan could only shrink back in horror…
When the High King Sturmir Thunderhammer lay dead on the field of battle, Mortis knew that
she had avenged herself and her husband. She let loose her grip on the skeletal army that
had served her so well, and exiled herself from the land of the living for many years. Love for
Gallean still burned in Mortis’s foul heart, and she waited in solitude for the return of her
husband.  
For eons, the fleshless goddess wandered in torment through her own dark mind. Where was
Gallean? She cried out his name, but she was answered only by her own distorted voice. At
long last, Mortis found her way out of this maddening labyrinth. If Gallean would not come
to her, it was because he could not come to her.
To revive Gallean, divine blood was required. And when the spirits revealed the existence of
a holy child, Mortis swore that, if need be, an ocean of blood would be spilled to reunite her
with her beloved…
Long ago, before evil sundered even the heavens, the Highfather looked upon the beauty of
the angel Bethrezen and granted him the divine right to create the world, which was to be
called Nevendaar. And Bethrezen did. His world was magnificent, and its inhabitants wanted
for nothing. But rancor grew among the lesser angels who, in a pique of jealousy and rage,
sowed disharmony and ill-will among the hitherto peaceful tribes of Nevendaar .
When the Highfather looked down upon Nevendaar, he was aghast. Where was the harmony
that Bethrezen had promised? Where were the endless green pastures? The Highfather saw
only suffering and strife; the green pastures were scorched black by ceaseless wars.
Nevendaar was to be the Highfather’s pride and joy, but Bethrezen had betrayed him. The
Highfather’s fury shook the heavens. Bethrezen would be punished…
After 6,000 years of imprisonment in chaos, Bethrezen’s earthly minions – the Legions of the
Damned – created a breach in their master’s dungeon. All that remained was to perform the
final ritual that would grant Bethrezen unbridled freedom. But the Highfather, in his infinite
mercy, revealed the location of the abominable ritual to the Empire and the Mountain Clans.
The Legions of the Damned were trapped in their mountain temple, and the secret rune
wisdom inscribed on the door would ensure that they would remain there for ten years. 
Now, that ten years has passed, and the Legions are free to perform the rites that will free
Bethrezen once and for all… 
PAGE 5
• Warrior Lord: Dedicated to combat, the parties of these fierce fighters regenerate 15%
of their damage per day. Although the Warrior Lord military knowledge in unsurpassed,
he can nevertheless cast one of each spell per day, and as many different spells as his Mana
reserve allows. However, his devotion to more traditional combat limits his knowledge of
spells to those of the fourth level. 
• Mage Lord: Well-versed in the mystic arts, Mage Lords can research all spells and cast
two of each spell per day, using as many different spells as their Mana reserve allows. Mage
Lords require half the Mana to research spells than other Lord types. In addition, the
Magic Tower (where all spell research ocurs) is readily available at the beginning of the
game. Mage Lord parties can only regenerate lost hit points in cities. 
• Guildmaster Lord: Like the Warrior Lord, the Guildmaster Lord is fond of conventional
combat techniques, though he employs more versatile (that is, deadly) Thieves in his
arsenal.  In addition, the Guild – which is necessary to hire the Thief – is already erected
at the start of the adventure. 
All of the actions available to the Guildmaster Thief:
Poison Party The thief poisons the enemy party, reducing the hit points of all the units
Infiltrate Spy The thief places a spy that infiltrates the enemy  
Steal Item The thief steals an item 
Assassinate The thief will assassinate the weakest unit in the enemy party
Counterfeit Orders The thief sends a false message to the enemy changing the battle positions 
of the party
Duel The thief engages the enemy leader in a duel
Poison City The thief poisons the enemy city, reducing the hit points 
Steal Spell The thief will steal spell knowledge owned by the enemy race
Bribe Populace The thief offers gold for the allegience of the city
Steal Gold The thief will steal gold from the city treasury
Steal Item The thief will steal an item from the merchant
Visit Ruin The thief will spy on the ruin, revealing information
The Lord Selection screen also allows you to define the following: 
• Lord Portrait: Click on the portrait in the center of the screen to select a different one. 
• Difficulty Level: Click the crown to cycle through the various difficulty levels: Easy, Average,
Hard, and Very Hard. The higher the level of difficulty the fewer resources you begin the
game with and the tougher the computer opponents are. 
• Lord Name: Accept the suggested name, or type the name of your new Lord in the box at
the bottom of the screen. 
When you have finished making your selections, click the Continue checkmark button to
continue. 
The Main Menu launches you into the mystical world of Nevendaar. Select one of the
following options to begin the adventure:  
• Single Player: Allows you to play against the computer. See Single Player Menu , below.
• Multiplayer: Allows you to play against others on the Internet or a Local Area Network
(LAN). See Multiplayer Menu , below.
• Intro: Introduction to the explosive events of Disciples II: Dark Prophecy .
• Credits: Find out who to blame should you be mercilessly pummeled.  
• Options: Opens the Options menu.  See Options , below.
• Quit: Exit Disciples II: Dark Prophecy .
The Single Player Menu contains all the options you need to battle against computer -
controlled foes: 
• New Saga: Begin a new series of linked Quests.  
• Load Saga: Load a previously saved Saga. 
• New Quest : Begin a new adventure. A Quest is a self-contained adventure that, unlike
quests within a saga, has no effect on subsequent quests. You must complete all of the
objectives in order to win. When you select New Quest, a list of scenarios is displayed.
Click on a scenario to view information about that Quest. The four boxes at the bottom of
the screen display the races involved in the selected scenario. Click the checkmark icon
to play the selected Quest. 
• Load Quest: Load a previously saved adventure. 
• Back: Return to the Main Menu. 
• Custom Campaign: Access a series of interfaces that allow you to design your own
adventuring world. See Designing Custom Campaigns and Scenarios , below.
• Load Custom Campaign: Load a previously saved custom campaign. 
Before you conquer the world, you must select the race that will aid you in carrying out your
plans. Click the arrows on the Race Selection screen to view images of each of the four races.
Each race has its strengths and weaknesses. When you have chosen the race you wish to play,
click the checkmark button to continue. 
The Lord Selection Screen
Now that you have determined your race, it’s time to select a Lord. Click the sword and shield
graphic to cycle through the Lord types. There are three types of Lord from which to choose:
PAGE 6
When you start any new adventure, the Beginning of Turn report is displayed: 
This report also appears at the beginning of each turn. It indicates your current income from
all possible resources during that turn only . For a report of your total resources, click the
Map/Resources toggle in the upper right corner of the screen. 
Click the checkmark icon to continue. 
Now, enter a name for your first leader. Accept the suggested name, or type in any name that
you wish. When you have selected a name, click the arrow icon. 
You will now see a briefing of the Saga or Quest, as well as your first objective. Each time you
complete part of a Saga, you will receive new directives for the next adventure. 
Each race involved in a quest may have a specific objective to complete. The following is a
partial list of the Quest/Saga objectives. You may need to perform a combination of them in
order win the game: 
• Destroy: Defeat a designated party in combat. 
• Capture City: Capture a designated city.
• Transform: Transform a designated percentage of land. Terrain adjacent to your Cities
and Rods (see Transforming the Land, below) is automatically transformed each turn. Any
terrain next to terrain of your type is also transformed. 
• Loot: Occupy and collect all items in a designated ruin.
• Item to Location: Bring an item to a location
• Party to Location: Lead a Party to a designated location
• Party to City: Lead a Party to a designated city
Disciples II: Dark Prophecy is played in turns, where each turn represents one day. During
each day you may do one or a combination of the following: 
• Explore the landscape with your heroes 
• Erect buildings in your capital
• Upgrade non-capital cities 
• Research new spells 
• Recruit and manage new heroes and armies 
• Buy and sell artifacts, scrolls, and potions 
• Engage in combat 
• Cast spells
During any turn, it is a good idea to assess your position from all perspectives: military ,
resource management, city management, etc. Even when all of your parties have exhausted
their movement points, you can still erect a building in your capital, research or cast a spell,
etc. Time is of the essence, and you can be sure that your enemies will be doing everything
in their power to close in on you. Don’t sit back and wait. 
Click the arrow in the bottom-right corner of the screen to start the adventure. 
PAGE 7
Map/Resources 
Use the Map/Resources toggle to view an up-to-date summary of your resources, your
location, and the status of your territorial struggle. When Map is toggled, the Worldview map
is displayed, showing an aerial view of all areas that you have explored. Mines are indicated
by crosses, squares indicate non-Capital cities under your control, and rectangles with a
white stripe indicate your moving parties. Left-click on the Worldview map to center the map
on the selected point. You can also drag the rectangle to the desired location to display that
area in Landview (the main gameplay area). 
When Resources is toggled, the Resource window displays the total resources that you own.
Remember, this is different from the Beginning of Turn report, which only displays the
resources acquired during a single turn. 
Toggle again to view the percentage of land (in tiles) that you and your enemies have trans -
formed. 
Objective 
Click to view the objective of your Quest. Click the button to replay the scenario brief-
ing during the Saga’s. On the Landview map, a blue circle indicates the location of a scenario
objective. For example, a blue circle surrounding a city indicates that this city plays an impor-
tant role in completing the Quest.  
Options 
Use the arrow buttons and toggle switches on the Options menu to define a variety of game
settings. The Options menu is divided into four main areas: 
Game Settings 
Unit Movement Set the speed of your units on the map as Normal, Fast, or Very Fast
Opponent Unit Movement Set the speed of enemy units on the map as Normal, Fast, or Very Fast
Scroll Speed Set the speed at which you scroll across the map as Slow , Normal, or
Fast
Battle Speed Set the speed at which combat unfolds as Slow, Normal, or Fast, 
Instant (When set to Instant, no combat animations appear)
Confirm End of Turn Display a prompt to confirm end of your turn
The Adventure Interface is comprised of two sections. The left side of the screen, or
Landview, shows your character’s immediate environment, including enemies, monsters, and
treasures. This is the “game board” where you position your armies and plot your tactics. T o
view information about any element on this screen, such as a building or monster, position
your cursor over the element and right-click. An information panel is displayed. Keep in mind
that some parties and buildings – notably the enemy Capital city – require a thief to spy on
them to gather information. 
Right-click on any element to view information
The right side of the Adventure Interface contains the information and options you may need
during any given turn. Take some time to become familiar with these controls before
proceeding. 

PAGE 8
displayed. Click the tab representing the level of the spell you wish to cast, and then select a
spell. Information about the selected spell is displayed on the right-hand page of the spell
book. You must have researched the spell that you wish to cast. Click the Cast Spell button or
double-click the spell icon to cast the spell. If you have sufficient Mana to cast the spell, the
Landview map is displayed. Click on an eligible target to cast the spell. You will know that a
target is eligible when the pointer appears charged with magical energy .
There are three general types of spell: World spells affect all pre-selected targets or creatures
on the entire map; Area Effect spells affect several targets in a location; Target spells affect a
single target.  
Diplomacy Screen 
Click on any of the portraits on the Diplomacy screen to view that Lord’s current diplomatic
status. You can use the Diplomacy screen to make and break alliances, and offer gifts of Gold
and magic to allies and potentially powerful enemies. 
Next to each Lord is a slider that shows that Lord’s diplomatic stance toward you. When the
red bar is close to the crossed swords, the selected Lord is inclined to War. You can offer
Gold to your enemy to change this state. When the Lord improves his diplomatic stance
toward you, the slider appears closer to the clasped hands at the top of the slider .
You can interact with the Lord by choosing one of the five Diplomatic Actions buttons: 
• Sell Item: When you select an item to sell, you are asked how much you wish to charge
for  the item. You may only sell items if you are at peace with the selected Lord. 
• Sell Spell: When you select a spell from the spell menu, you are asked how much you
wish to charge for the spell. You may only sell spells if you are at peace with the selected Lord. 
• Give Gold: Giving Gold can entice opponents to have a more favorable view of your Lord. 
Autosave Saves your current game after every turn
Map Destination Highlight Displays a marker on the Landview map that shows the exact location
of the cursor
Allow Battles In Path When When a destination is selected for a party, the path selected will not 
Moving a Party avoid combat 
Graphics
Extra Battle Animations Enables unit idle animations in battle
Isometric Animations Enables motion in Landview animations, such as waterfalls
Clouds Over Map Displays animated clouds in Landview 
Sounds and Music
Sound FX Volume Select Off, Low, Medium, or Loud volume
Music Volume Select Off, Low, Medium, or Loud volume
Unit Acknowledgements Select Off, Low, Medium, or Loud for unit acknowledgements based
on Sound FX Volume
Isometric Audio Environment Select Off, Low, Normal, or High to change the level of environment
sounds that can be heard
Performance
Low Memory Video Card Enable for older video cards
Alpha Blending Quality Select between High or Low to change the level of level in the 
translucency effects.
Scrolling Between Actions Display will scroll slowly to moving party 
Smooth Scrolling During Enables higher refresh rate during party movement 
Party Movement
You can use the Low End and High End buttons to set quick default settings for your system.
The following selections are also available on the Options menu: 
• Load Game: Click on the previously saved game that you wish to load, and click the Load
Game button. 
• Save Game: Enter a name for your game in the text box, and click the Save Game button. 
• Quit Game: Exits the current game and returns you to the Main Menu. 
Click the arrow icon to exit the Options menu. 
Display Flags 
Sometimes your parties will be hidden behind buildings, trees, or other elements of the
landscape. Click the Display Flags button to display large banners beside each party for
easier recognition of your armies. 
Cast Spell
Click this button to cast a researched spell during your turn. The spell book menu is
PAGE 9
a Staff, the resource cost is deducted from the appropriate resource totals. Your leader must
possess the Use Staff or Scroll ability to use this feature. 
Select Next Leader 
Automatically centers the Landview on the next leader and his or her party .
Click the Capital City icon to display the Capital City menu. The Capital City menu
allows you to do the following: 
• Research Spells: Click the Research Spell icon to display the Spellbook.  The
Spellbook contains all of the spells available in the Quest, by level. When you click on a
Spell, information is displayed on the right-hand page, as shown below .
Double-click on a spell to Research it, or click the Research Spell icon. Bear in mind that
not all spells are available in all Quests.
• Exit Leader: Click the Exit Leader icon to return to the Landview map with the
leader and his party outside the City walls. You can now move your leader in Landview .
• Manage Army: Click the Army Screen icon to display the Manage Army menu. 
The section of the Manage Army screen shown below indicates the battle positions that the
leader and his units occupy. The left column represents the back rank, and the right
column represents the front rank. This section of the Manage Army screen shows your
Moving Party; that is, the party that explores the terrain. The right side of the screen shows
your City Defenses, which are described in detail below.
• Offer Alliance: Before you can offer an alliance, you must first offer Gold to your
prospective collaborator, and prove your mettle in combat. 
Note that if you cast an Area Effect spell over an allied computer-controlled race, any treaty
is instantly broken. If one of your allies casts an Area Effect spell over one of your parties,
you have the option of breaking the alliance. 
In multiplayer games, you may also chat with your opponents. See the Multiplayer section of
this manual.  
Capital City 
The Capital City screen is the interface from which you hire parties, research spells, and build
additional structures. For more information about these procedures, see The Capital City and
Building Structures sections of this manual.  
Plant Rod 
You use rods to transform the land around you. Once transformed, the land belongs to your
race, and all resources located in that area are immediately added to your resource totals.
For more information about this important tactic, see Transforming the Land. 
Exchange Between Parties 
Units and items can be exchanged between adjacent parties. To exchange items, select a party,
click the Exchange Between Parties button, and then select an adjacent party. The Exchange
window appears. Drag the items or units to their new positions. The two parties must be your
own. Additionally, both leaders must be alive. You may, however, exchange a Revive potion,
revive a fallen leader with it, and then exchange party members. 
Guard
Removes a leader from the Next Leader rotation for the remainder of the turn. 
End Turn 
Click to end your turn and allow the next player to move. When another player is moving, an
hour glass icon appears on screen. The turn number is displayed above the End Turn button. 
Continue Move 
Often, your party will not have the required movement points to reach your intended
destination in a single turn, or your movement will be interrupted by an onscreen message.
Click this icon to continue your party’s move as you previously defined it. 
Use Staff or Scroll 
Click the Use Staff or Scroll Spell button, and then select the Scroll or Spell you wish to use.
Information about the item and your current available resources are displayed. Next, select
the target. If you cast a spell from a Scroll, the Scroll is destroyed. If you cast the spell from
PAGE 10
Your City Defenses are displayed on the right side of the Manage Army screen. These units
may never leave the City unless transferred to your Moving Party. The number of reserve units
in a City is determined by the level of the city. You can move items from your City to your
Moving Party by dragging and dropping an item into a vacant slot. You can also use a potion
on a unit or leader by dropping it over the target. The number in the bottom right corner of
each item box indicates the number of that item that you currently possess.  
Each Capital City has a Guardian unit. The Guardian is a powerful entity that cannot leave the
capital, but stands ready to assist in its defense. Remember that your enemy Capitals also have
Guardians, and they are quite capable of annihilating an enemy with a single blow .
You can perform the following additional functions from the Manage Army screen: 
• Dismiss Unit: Click the Dismiss Unit icon to get rid of a selected unit. 
When you click the Dismiss Unit icon, the cursor changes to . Position the cursor
over the unit you wish to remove, and click. 
• Heal Unit: Click the Heal Unit icon and then select a unit to restore Hit Points to
that unit. It costs Gold to heal a unit; the amount will depend on how many Hit Points need
to be restored to the unit. You must have the Temple built in your Capital City in order to
heal a unit. 
• Revive Unit: Click the Revive Unit icon to resurrect a dead unit. When you select
the unit to be revived, a message box indicates the cost of the procedure. Revived units
return to life with only one hit point. You may then use the Heal Unit feature to boost the
u n i t ’s Hit Points. You must have the Temple built in your Capital City in order to revive a unit. 
• Hire a Unit: To hire a new unit, click any unoccupied reserve position. Select the unit
from the Hire a Unit panel, and then confirm your selection. The cost will be deducted
from your Gold supply. To create a new party, click the blank window on the left side of
the screen and then select from the list of available leader types. You can then add
additional units. All costs will be deducted from your Gold supply. Note that in order to
hire the Thief, you must construct the Guild in your Capital City .
To reposition units within the battle formation, drag and drop them where you wish. It is
a good idea to place units with the most hit points, and those who may attack only
adjacent targets, in the front rank. When a unit has been selected, the spaces to which a
unit can move are highlighted. 
To equip a party with an item from the City’s vault (the items along the bottom of the right
hand side of the screen), drag and drop an item into one of the vacant squares at the
bottom of the left side of the screen. Use the Up and Down buttons to view your items if
you have more than four stored at one time. Until you assign an item to a party, the item
is inactive. To assign an item, simply drag the item onto the unit that you wish to equip. 

PAGE 11
Keep in mind that certain items require that the leader possess the ability to use them. For
example, in order to use a banner, the leader must have the “Banner Bearer” ability .
Paper Doll Interface
Normal Items: These items can be equipped or used on units:
• Banners: The leader must have the Banner Bearer ability to equip a Banner .
• Artifacts: The leader must have the Artifact Lore ability to equip an Artifact.
• Tomes: The leader must have the Arcane Lore ability to equip a Tome.
• Potions: No ability is required to use Potions.
• Boots: The leader must have the Boots ability to equip Boots.
Battle Items: These items can be used only once per battle:
• Potions: No ability is required to equip potions and use them in battle.
• Orbs: The leader must have the Use Orb ability to equip an Orb.
• Talismans: The leader must have the Use Talisman ability to equip a Talisman.
Other: These items cannot be equipped:
• Valuables: Valuables (such as a silver ring) can only be sold to merchants. Right-click on
any valuable to view its worth in Gold. 
• Special: These items, such as ancient runes, can be neither equipped nor sold and are
used solely to complete quest objectives.
There is a limit to the number of items that your leader can equip:
To select one of your Leaders, position the pointer over the character until the pointer turns
into a gauntlet.  Your Leader begins the quest at the entrance to his or her Capital City. When
you click on the Leader, information about the Leader is displayed on the right side of the
screen. Your Leader has a maximum number of movement points, as expressed by the
second number after the slash. Different and more difficult terrains consume more
movement points. When your current movement point level (indicated to the left of the slash)
is reduced to zero, you cannot move that Leader again until the next turn. 
To move the selected Leader, simply double-click on the location where you want the Leader
to move. The Leader is automatically moved to that position. 
When you click on the destination for a selected party, a series of flags are displayed. Blue
flags mark the path the party will take. Red flags mark a path that will lead into a combat
situation. If the destination is farther than the distance that a party can travel (that is, beyond
the range of your movement points for that turn), white flags mark the portion that the party
will be able to move in the next turn. To enter a City, double-click the front gate, which is
identified by a moving arrow .
Paperdoll 
The Paperdoll interface can be reached by clicking on the paperdoll icon in the
manage party, exchange units screen and the army screen. The Paperdoll interface displays
the various locations where items with which your leader can be equipped. Each type of
magical item has a specific slot where it can be equipped, and each slot is marked to
indicate the type of magical item that can be inserted into it. Simply click and drag the item
to the appropriate slot. To learn more about an item, right-click on it to view the encyclopedia.

PAGE 12
Each race has a distinctive terrain type and color. The Empire’s is green grass, the Mountain
Clans’ is white snow, the Legions of the Damned spew red lava-rock, and the Undead Hordes
scorch the ground black. 
Land is transformed in three ways: 
• Land adjacent to a City (including a Capital City) is transformed each turn into the type of
land used by the race controlling the city. The amount of land that is transformed depends
upon the level of the City. Higher level cities transform more land. To see how much land
your race has transformed, click the Map/Resource toggle. The percentage of land (in
tiles) transformed by each race is displayed.
• Land adjacent to transformed land is transformed if not influenced by other factors such
as enemy control or enemy Rods. 
• Land adjacent to Rods is transformed each turn. 
Planting and Removing Rods
Each race has a unique leader unit who may plant Rods to transform the land: 
Race Unit Name
Empire Arch-Angel
Mountain Clans: Dwarf Champion
Legions of the Damned: Baroness
Undead Hordes: Banshee
To plant a Rod, select the special unit, click the Plant Rod button, select the area on the map
where you wish to place the Rod, and click. Planting a Rod costs 150 Gold. Once the Rod is
planted, the terrain surrounding it transforms into the color representative of your race. As
long as your Rod remains untouched, the terrain beneath it will transform with each passing
turn. You cannot plant a Rod on terrain occupied by mountains or water .
You can also use your special unit to remove Rods. Simply move the appropriate unit beside
the Rod and click the Place/Remove Rod button.  The land beneath the removed Rod can now
be controlled by any race by planting a Rod on it. 
The Game Landscape
The game landscape is comprised of a number of elements: 
Ruins: These locations, usually depicted by a crumbling structure, contain Gold or other
beneficial items. They are often guarded by monsters. Right click on a ruin to see if it has
been looted. A looted ruin contains nothing of value. 
Gold Mines and Mana: Transforming the land under these resources into land indigenous
to your race grants you control of the resource.
• Only one (1) Banner can be equipped (Top position left).
• Only one (1) Tome can be equipped (Top position right).
• Only one (1) Boots can be equipped (Lowest center).
• T wo (2) Artifacts can be equipped (Right and left center, below hands).
• T wo (2) Battle items can be equipped (Right and left in / over hands).
To leave an item for an ally, click the Drop Item button , and then select a location to
drop the item. A bag is displayed to mark the location of the dropped item. The allied party
needs only to pick up the item to add it to it’s inventory .
Movement and Terrain Type
Terrain type determines how far your party can move per turn. The following is a list of the
number of movement points expended when traveling across different types of terrain: 
• Roads: 1 movement point per square
• Plains: 2 movement points per square
• Forest: 4 movement points per square
• Water: 6 movement points per square
You can acquire special abilities, such as flying, that will modify the above movement rates in
your favor.
Resources
There are two primary resources in Disciples II: Dark Prophecy . You use Gold to erect
buildings, purchase items, and create armies. You use Mana to research and cast spells. 
Each race depends primarily on a specific type of Mana: 
• Empire: Life Mana (Blue)
• Legions of the Damned: Infernal Mana (Red)
• Mountain Clans: Runestone Mana (White)
• Undead Hordes: Death Mana (Black)
You may also find or buy spells that are indigenous to another race, in which case you will
need to obtain the Mana of that race in order to cast the spell. 
Note also that spells of Level Three and higher often require a combination of different Mana types. 
Transforming the Land
Mana sites and Gold mines – both of which are needed to bolster your economy – are not
captured, but controlled. Both sites supply their resources to the Lord who owns the land on
which they lie. 
PAGE 13
Other Areas of Interest
You should also expect to encounter the following on your travels: 
• Bags: Bags may contain magic items or other valuable objects. 
• Rods: Your parties will encounter Rods planted by your enemies. Only leaders with the
Plant/Remove ability can remove them. 
• Mercenary Camps: Mercenary Camps are populated with soldiers who will offer to join
your party for a price. Mercenary camps may offer unique units not normally available. 
• Magic Towers: You may buy spells in Magic Towers. Some of these spells may come from
another race's repertoire, requiring a different Mana type to cast them.  
• Merchants: Here you can purchase and sell any number of items. Gold is accepted as
payment in Merchant shops. During your travels, you can also find valuable items (such
as rings) that may be exchanged for the Merchant’s goods. 
• Training Camps: Training camps may be used to increase the skill level of your party and
its leader. Simply click on the Training camp to enter it, click the Train Unit icon, and then
select the unit you wish to train. A panel is displayed indicating the amount of experience
that the unit has received. 
To enter combat, position your cursor over a party in Landview. If the cursor changes to an
arrowhead, then you may engage that target in combat. Eligible targets include Ruins, an
enemy party, an enemy city, or a monster party. Double-click on the target party. Your unit
moves to the enemy’s location, and the Combat screen is displayed. Keep in mind that
initiating combat takes away half of the leader’s total movement allowance. 
The Combat screen displays a close-up view of the combatants and the immediate vicinity .
Also displayed are portraits of your units and all enemy units indicating the number of hit
points remaining for each unit. 
Combat is played in a series of rounds. During each round, the active combatant’s portrait is
Enemies: These can include both computer or opponent controlled leaders and their par -
ties. Moving to the enemy location (indicated with red flags) automatically initiates combat. 
Monsters: Combat is automatically initiated when your party moves to a tile occupied by a
monster. Monsters usually guard items of value. 
Cities: Capturing Cities increases the amount of land your race transforms per day. Cities
have their own guards, and may have one additional party present. 
When you conquer an enemy city, it immediately falls under your control. The terrain under
it is transformed, and will continue to transform with each passing turn. In addition, you may
now recruit new armies from the city. Simply follow the procedure for recruiting an army in
your Capital. Keep in mind that, although you now control the city, it can easily be retaken if
you do not defend it. 
Summoned creatures and Thieves cannot capture enemy cities. For example, if you cast
Living Armor, and it defeats the enemies within the city, you will need to move one of your
parties into the city in order to transform it.
You can upgrade your non -Capital cities if you have enough Gold to make the improvement.
Upgrading your cities has the following effects: 
• Increases the number of units you may put in the City Defense party .
• Increases the transformation rate of the land surrounding the city .
• Enhances the armor value of the units inside the city .
• Increases the rate at which the city rejuvenates units within its walls. 
To upgrade a non-Capital city, click the Grow City button . Note that each upgrade costs
an ever-increasing amount of Gold. The arrow keys located on either side of the grow city
button allow you to toggle between controlled cities. 
The following panel appears when you click the Grow City button: 

PAGE 14
When an opposing Thief successfully challenges you, a notification appears to inform you of
his action: 
When you enter into a combat situation with your Thief, a dialog box displays your options
and your chances of succeeding. The Thief is the only unit in the game that does not gain
experience. 
As long as one member of a party survives the combat, the party continues to exist. However,
if the entire party is destroyed, a tombstone marks its demise on the Landview map. A
leaderless party is indicated by a pair of wounded warriors. The dead leader’s personal
equipment is placed into the party’s inventory. The party’s movement allowance is halved until
the leader is resurrected. In addition, parties with dead leaders are prohibited from
capturing cities (even vacant cities), visiting ruins or Magic Towers, Mercenary Towers, and
Trainers facilities. In other words, make sure that your leader survives every battle. 
Your party will regenerate hit points each day until the maximum allowance is reached, or
until you re-enter combat.
The victor in combat is awarded experience points based on the experience point value of
the enemies slain. This total is divided among the surviving members of the victorious party .
Dead units never gain experience. If a dead unit is revived, that unit receives experience
points for any units killed since the unit was resurrected.
The number of experience points for each unit is displayed on the unit’s portrait. In addition,
a cross will appear in the corner of a unit’s portrait to indicate that, in order to upgrade, the
appropriate upgrade structure must be built.
highlighted. Each unit may perform one of the following actions per round.
• Assist your own party: Units with special abilities may use their turn to cast a spell that
will benefit their own party. For example, you may have a unit who is able to heal injured
comrades. Any eligible units are highlighted. Click on the unit(s) you wish to assist, and
the spell is cast. 
• Attack an enemy unit : Not all units can attack all targets. Some units can only attack
adjacent units, although once the front line has been eliminated, rear enemy units become
eligible targets. To attack an enemy unit, select that unit on the panel and click. The results
of your attack are displayed. 
• Retreat: Each enemy unit has one last attack on all retreating units. 
• Autobattle: Click this icon to have the computer automatically play out a melee, click on
it again to stop the feature. 
• Wait: The unit will attack after every other unit has attacked.
• Defend: When you select Defend, the unit takes only half damage during that turn. 
• Toggle Displayed Party: Click this icon to view either your units or enemy units. 
Combat continues until one side is eliminated, or until your party retreats. If the surviving
side has a healer, that unit is allowed an extra turn in which to heal allied units. 
The Thief is a unique leader who relies on subterfuge to overwhelm his enemies. The Thief
must act alone. If he fails at any of the actions described below, he is promptly executed by
the enemy. You can secure a more powerful Thief  - possessing additional thieving options -
by choosing Guildmaster Lord at the beginning of the game. 
The Thief may attempt any of the following actions: 
• Poison: A successful poisoning reduces the hit points of all units in the targeted party .
• Counterfeit Orders : A false message is dispatched to the enemy, thus changing the
battle position of the targeted party. This can result in an enemy formation that positions
close-range combatants in the back row, and archers in the front row.
• Spy: If your Spy successfully infiltrates the enemy, right-click on enemy parties, cities, and
ruins to display information about the target. Your Spy can continue to infiltrate these
areas until he is caught. 
• Assassinate: The Thief assassinates the weakest unit in the enemy party .
• Duel: The Thief engages the enemy party leader in a duel to the death. 
• Steal Item: The Thief robs an enemy party (or a Merchant) of a spell or item. 
• Steal Gold: The Thief pilfers Gold from the City Treasury.
• Steal Spell: The Thief steals spell knowledge from an enemy race. 
• Bribe: The Thief offers Gold in return for a city’s allegiance.  
PAGE 15
The structures that are displayed depend upon which building class button that you have
selected:
Keep in mind that some buildings require that a prerequisite structure be built. This will be
indicated on the right side of the Build Structure screen. 
The various structures are highlighted or outlined according to their current status and
availability: 
• Red: The structure cannot be built. 
• Gray: The structure is eliminated from the branch due to your branch choice. That is,
once you commit to a building branch, you cannot construct buildings in another branch. 
• Blue: The structure has already been built. 
Any structure that is not highlighted or outlined can be immediately built. 
Once you have selected the building that you wish to construct, click the Build Structure
button. Once a structure has been built, the structure appears on the Capital City screen, and
Right-click on the unit’s portrait to see which structure needs to be built.  
In order for a unit to advance a level, the upgrade structure must already have been built. For
example, if a Possessed unit gains 95 experience points, enough to advance to Berserker, he
can only do so if the Unholy Portal has been built. If he gains the 95 points but the Unholy
Portal has not been built he will remain a Possessed unit with 94 experience points until the
Unholy Portal has been built and he has gotten into (and survived!) another battle to earn the
last point of experience.  This idea of earning the final necessary experience point in battle
is also true for training camps. 
Also, if you’ve built the last possible upgrade structure in a branch (for example, the Idol of
Bethrezen), you will upgrade automatically when you have gained enough experience. This
is due to the fact that there are no additional upgrade structures to be built. However, the unit
will continue to advance, becoming a Level 5 Infernal Knight, a Level 6 Infernal Knight, etc.,
each time he earns 1725 experience points.  
Click the Build Structure icon on the Capital City screen to display the City
Development screen. You build new structures to allow non-leader units (depending on the
type of structure that you build) to acquire new levels of expertise in their field. For
example, if you build a Library, your Apprentice will be allowed to progress to the next level,
Mage, when he has acquired enough Experience Points. There are a number of buildings
available, depending on your race and the Saga or Quest that you are playing. The following
image illustrates the Library example: 

PAGE 16
To display a detailed explanation of an ability, simply right click on it.  
Click the Close button to return to the Capital City screen. 
To start a Multiplayer game, select Multiplayer from the Main Menu. You have 5 options on
the Connection Selection screen: 
• Hotseat 
• IPX Connection for Direct Play: takes you to the Multiplayer Menu
• Internet TCP/IP Connection for Direct Play: takes you to the Multiplayer Menu
• Modem Connection for Direct Play: takes you to the Multiplayer Menu
• Serial Connection for Direct Play: takes you to the Multiplayer Menu
Hotseat is a multiplayer feature that allows two to four players to play a multiplayer session
on the same computer. When you use Hotseat, players act one after the other, not
simultaneously. In Hotseat mode, you end your turn by clicking the End Turn button. 
The Hotseat menu has the following options: 
• New Skirmish: Starts a new game in hot-seat play
• Load Skirmish: Loads a game already in progress
• Back: Returns you to the Main Menu. 
You set up the game in the same way as the other multiplayer games, except that everything
is done on the same computer. See Multiplayer Menu, below.
Regardless of your connection, each Multiplayer game starts with the Multiplayer Menu,
which contains the following options: 
Host
There are four fields in the Host Game screen: 
• GameName : You can change the name of the game, which is automatically selected when
you choose a game type. 
• Player Name: Enter the name by which you will be known in the game. 
• Password: Enter the password which players will need to enter your game. 
• Game Type: Select any of the games available in the list. A description appears at the
any function associated with it is immediately active. You can only construct one structure per
turn. 
When your leader has attained enough Experience Points to reach a new level, some of his
statistics automatically rise, and you are prompted to select a new skill on the following day:
Not all abilities are available to all leaders. The following is a complete list of leader upgrade
abilities: 
Artifact Lore Allows the leader to equip Artifacts
Arcane Knowledge Allows the leader to read magical Tomes
Banner Bearer Allows the leader to equip Banners
Pathfinding Increases the leader movement by 20%
Arcane Lore Allows the leader to equip and use Orbs in battle
Leadership Allows the leader to take one more unit in his party
Travel Lore Allows the leader to wear magical Boots
Might Adds 25% damage to the attack of the leader
Natural Armor The leader will absorb 20% of all the damage he suffers
Arcane Power Allows the leader to equip and use Talismans in battle
Advanced Pathfinding Increases the leader movement by 25%
Weapon Master All the units in the leader's party will gain 25% more experience in battle
Accuracy Increases by  20% the chances to hit of the leader's attack
Keen-Sight The leader will see further in the fog of war
Natural Healing The leader will regenerate 15% of his hit points each day
Toughness Adds 20% more hit points to the leader
Incorruptible The leader becomes incorruptible to Thieves
Water Ward Protects the leader against the first water based attack in battle
Forestwalk The leader will suffer no move penalty in forests
Earth Ward Protects the leader against the first earth based attack in battle
First Strike Increases the initiative of the leader by 50%
Fire Ward Protects the leader against the first fire based attack in battle
Air Ward Protects the leader against the first air based attack in battle

PAGE 17
The Empire
Squire The Squire nobly offers protection to his weaker compatriots in battle, fighting off
all attackers with his sword.
Knight The Knight uses his divine strength to guard the Empire against inequity .
Imperial Knight The Imperial Knight's absolute faith propels him to defend the innocent, 
making him a formidable adversary.
Witch-Hunter The Witch-Hunter is immune to mind based attacks through his experience in 
battling evil forces.
Inquisitor Long devoted to the task of eradicating evil, the Inquisitor attacks with holy force 
and is not affected by mind based attacks.
Archer The Archer's attack is swift and far-reaching.  Thus making them effective 
against magic-users that shield themselves behind their stronger comrades.
Marksman The Marksman has great skill with the bow; their arrows fly far and a single hit 
can mean death to their opponents.
Apprentice The Apprentice unleashes lightning on all enemy units, he attacks with 
vengeance from a distance.
Mage Casting lightning with double the violence, the Mage shows no mercy to adversaries.
Wizard The Wizard is a peerless spellcaster; he calls down mighty bolts of lightning from
the heavens.
Acolyte As a healer, the Acolyte comes to the aid of one unit at a time in combat.
Priest Priests can substantially heal damaged units. He patiently attends to one soldier 
at a time during battle.
Imperial Priest The Imperial Priest is blessed with the ability to cure units; the wounded will 
recover much of their health under his individual care.
Angel An emissary of the Highfather, the Angel's holy sword smites all those who 
threaten the Empire.
Paladin The Paladin has been granted the best armor in the land to staunchly defend his 
people against unholy forces.
Cleric The Cleric brings down divine aid to heal all injured in his party .
Matriarch The Matriarch's prayers miraculously heal all in her party.
Titan The Titan is an immense, stalwart creature; she towers above enemy armies.
Pegasus Knight The Pegasus Knight is a noble fighter whose wings carry him high above forests 
and sea.
Ranger Traveling quickly around the realm, the Ranger is often sent on scouting 
missions by the King.
Archmage Master of the arcane, an Archmage is the only Empire leader who can use staffs 
and scrolls.
Arch-Angel The Archangel claims land for the Empire by planting rods. The ground 
surrounding her rods magically converts into Empire soil.
Thief Thieves are adept at mischief, and can sneak behind enemy lines to secure 
information important to the Empire's cause.
Hierophant The Hierophant's devotion is such that he can revive dead warriors through 
ceremony.
Prophetess The Prophetess is able to commune directly with the Highfather, her illumined 
word cures her comrades in battle.
bottom of the screen indicating objectives and map size. 
From the Lobby, you can do the following: 
• In the Player Info section, view the players who have joined your game. 
To eject a player from the game, click the Kick button next to the player’s name.
• V iew Quest Information, which details the story and objectives for the selected game.
• Chat with other players. Type your message in the field below the message window, and
press Enter to send the message. Use the Up and Down arrows to scroll through the
messages. 
• Use the Up and Down arrows to set Options, as shown in the illustration below .
Click the Continue checkmark icon to start the game. 
Join Quest
To join a game hosted by another player, select a game from the Game List, and then select a
player from the Player List. Enter your name in the Player Name field, and then enter the
password supplied by the game’s host. 
To view the most recent games in progress, click the Refresh Quest List icon.
Click the Continue checkmark icon to join the game. 
Load Quest
To load a game, select one of the games from the list of saved multiplayer games, and then
enter the Game Name, your Player Name, and the password. Click the Continue checkmark
icon to continue. 
PAGE 18
Dwarf Champion Chosen by Wotan to transform the land, the Dwarf Champion plants rods to 
expand the High King's territory.
Thief A Thief has many tricks at his disposal that he employs to further the High King's cause.
Elder One The most ancient of Dwarven warriors are the Elder Ones; they have learned 
well the art of war.
Son of Ymir Descended from the greatest Dwarven warrior that ever lived, Sons of Ymir can 
kill with a single blow.
Archdruidess The Archdruidess administers tonics to her warriors, which allows them to smite 
enemies with greater force.
Alchemist Alchemists charm their allies so to grant them an extra attack during battle.
Forge Guardian The forge Guardian crafts his own weapons with care; his crossbow bolts are 
devastating.
Hermit The Hermit blows the grim horn of war, gathering together the Clans 
against invaders.
Wolf Lord The Wolf Lord has dominion over the spirits of wolves, he can call upon 
their powers in battle.
Rune Master The Runemaster is a fearsome warrior; he imbues his sword with runic magic.
Spirit of Fenrir When posessed by wolf spirits, the Wolf Lord becomes the fierce bearer of Fenrir's 
battle traditions.
The Legions of the Damned
Possessed The Demon Lord enslaves these strong-bodied peasants to fight in his infernal 
battles.
Berzerker As humanity weakens in these possessed creatures, their violence becomes 
uncontrollable.
Anti-Paladin Demons have mastered the souls of these once holy warriors, their virtuous 
past has long been forgotten.
Gargoyle Those who obey blindly the orders of cruel leaders become stone demons in the 
afterlife; They suffer in infernal fires, and turn slowly to stone.
Marble Gargoyle Marble Gargoyles are the winged demons of the sixth plane of hell; they are 
impervious to mind attacks and their bodies are too solid to be easily damaged.
Devil This unclean being menaces the land for his dark Lord Bethrezen.
Demon Demons inhabit the lower regions of Hell, they are more powerful than the 
lesser devils.
Moloch Molochs gain power and strength by devouring the souls of those they slay .
Beast The great Beast the very form of maleficence, none can escape the reach of this 
monstrosity.
Demon Lord The Demon Lord is a sovereign of Hell; As such, they lead devilish armies 
for Bethrezen.
Cultist Humans that have an inborn affinity for evil; they call down fire on entire armies.
Sorcerer Dark Sorcerers can summon fiery rain to consume enemy forces.
White Wizard White Wizards use pure magic to help the highfather's followers.
Elementalist Elementalists have mastered the winds so to summon forth Airy beasts in battle.
Imperial Assassin The Imperial Assassin makes use of dark arts to kill its enemies.
Holy Avenger The Holy Avenger is consumed by his earthly mission to fight evil.
Defender of Faith The Defender of the Faith guards against the profane beings that would fight 
the Highfather.
Grand Inquisitor The Grand Inquisitor has withstood the fires and the terrors of Hell itself to 
oust evil influences from the realm.
The Mountain Clans
Axe Thrower The Axe Thrower's great strength and ferocious fighting spirit allows it to reach 
any unit during battle.
Crossbowman Crossbowmen rain death upon their adversaries with each volley.
Flame Caster Flinging fire-tipped arrows into the fray, the Flame Caster's attack reaches all 
members of the enemy party.
Hill Giant The Hill Giant possesses strength so great that it chooses an uprooted tree 
as its weapon.
Rock Giant The massive Rock Giant hurls giant boulders at its foe.
Tempest Giant They descend from the skies to bring lightning storms down on all those who 
offend the Dwarves.
Ice Giant The Ice Giant is called from frigid mountain peaks to fight for the clan's cause.
Tenderfoot The Tenderfoot's gentle arts increase the force of his allies in battle.
Novice The magical potions of the Novice increase the damage of one unit in battle.
Druidess The Druidess is an adept who cures her allies and can magically add to the 
force of their weapon.
Dwarf The Dwarf rushes valiantly into battle, knowing that Wotan protects the 
brave of heart.
Warrior The Warrior is always ready to battle for the glory of his God, Wotan.
Veteran The Veteran has meted out justice to many. They desire to one day die with 
honor in battle.
Dwarf King Dwarves rewarded for unusual skill in battle by being named King of their 
Clan. Dwarf Kings wear the finest dwarven armor.
Venerable Warrior Dwarves who have seen many years of battle, Venerable Warriors fight with the 
ferocity of one who has no fear of the world beyond.
Mountaineer Well adapted to hostile climes, the Mountaineer showers entire armies with icy 
shards culled from mountain glaciers.
Yeti With a thick hide and icy breath, the Yeti has sent many an adventurer to an 
early grave.
King's Guard As warlike leaders, the King's Guards are sent to quell any danger that threatens 
the dwarven lands.
Engineer Engineers travel far and wide, keeping the High King informed of happenings in 
the Dwarven Lands.
Loremaster The Loremaster collects the ancestral wisdom of the Clans and has the ability to 
use staffs and scrolls.
PAGE 19
Skeleton Champion Great fighting unit of the undead, the Skeleton Champion raises his 
bony fists against the living.
Templar The Templar subverts religious rites in order to honor Queen Mortis. They are
impervious to the elements.
Dark Lord Mortis grants the Dark Lords control over the elements as reward for their servitude.
Werewolf The werewolf rampages by moonlight; He cannot be killed by any blade.
Wyvern Sorcerers resurrect lifeless dragons, creating Wyverns to fight in their Undead armies.
Doomdrake These awesome beasts breathed fire while living; now undead, they exhale 
poisonous vapors on enemy troops.
Deathdragon Deathdragons terrorize the land from beyond the grave; their poisonous 
breath envelops entire armies during battle.
Death Knight The Death Knight's ferocity in battle is unmatched. His high leadership and 
flying ability are his greatest assets.
Nosferat The Nosferats drain the life force of their enemies in battle, weakening his 
opponents while feeding his own evil soul.
Lich Queen Female Necromancers live after death as the dreadful Lich Queen. Their 
unholy knowledge allows them to use staffs and scrolls.
Banshee Banshees plant rods on living soil and create a barren wasteland.
Thief A Thief is sent by the king to enemy cities, there he uses his craft to outwit the enemy.
Shade The Shade's horrifying appearance inspires a paralyzing fear in all.
Elder Vampire Elder Vampires cheat death by stealing the life essence of mortals.
Archlich A sorcerer who prolongs his arcane studies far beyond his mortal lifetime 
becomes an archlich.
Death The avatar and messenger of death, gathering souls in the land of the living.
Wight These traitorous warriors prey upon the living as dreadful Wights.
Phantom Warrior Warriors who betrayed their comrades in battle are condemned to fight forevermore.
Dreadwyrm The Dreadwyrm is summoned up to rain their poisonous malice upon the land.
Dracolich This great undead dragon pours death down on its enemies.
Demonologist The Demonologist creates a storm of Flames so powerful that no army can escape it.
Incubus The Incubus turns men to stone with their horrible death cries.
Pandemoneus The Pandemoneous controls infernal fires, incinerating entire armies at once.
Witch Witches dwell in the depths of forests; if bothered they have been known to 
retaliate by transforming the hated interlopers.
Hag Hags have the ability to transform enemies into anything they desire.
Fiend The goatman hides it's misshapen form within a labyrinthine lair. Few can 
resist its furious attack.
Duke The Duke's warlike spirit leads demons into battle, sword in hand.
Counselor The Counselor leads the vanguard of the Legions forces; he travels at high 
speed upon the lands.
Arch-Devil The Archdevil is master of the arcane; he has knowledge of staffs and scrolls.
Baroness Under the Baroness' control the realm transforms into a fiery wasteland.
Thief The Thief is valued for his skill in subterfuge .
Infernal Knight Knights that once fought for the Highfather; demons have corrupted their 
souls to Bethezren's purpose.
Onyx Gargoyle Hardened by the fires of hell, the Onyx Gargoyle is a threat to enemies of Bethrezen.
Tiamath Attached to Bethrezen's hellish throne, Tiamath is only released during 
Bethrezen's demented frenzies.
Overlord Overlords control the most unruly inhabitants of hell; occasionally they are 
needed aboveground.
Abyssal Devil Abyssal Devils emerge from the depths of hell but rarely. Their appearance can 
make cowards of the most experienced of warriors.
Doppelganger A Doppelganger has the unnatural ability to shape its form, thereby confusing 
his foe.
Modeus Drawing strength from the fires of hell, Modeus wreaks fiery havoc on his enemies.
Succubus The Succubus is a demon who clings still to pleasures of mortals. They can 
transform their opponents into anything they so wish.
The Undead Hordes
Ghost Ghosts are spirits bound by evil to the earth; they join their undead brethren's crusade.
Specter A Specter's forceful spirit makes his paralyzing attack stronger.
Initiate Initiates have been trained to spread death and disease upon living armies.
Warlock Warlocks become more effective over time in their quest to spread of pestilence 
on the lands.
Necromancer The Necromancer has perfected his craft; pestilence will engulf any army he 
encounters.
Vampire Men who have rejected the words of the Highfather become vampires. They 
sustain themselves by draining the life force of innocents.
Lich Those who cultivate arcane knowledge in life become Liches; they infect the 
living with deadly plague winds.
Wraith Wraiths pass over from the land of the undead to spread pestilence.
Fighter These Fighters live again to crush the enemies of Mortis.
Zombie Dead souls who have been transformed by ritual into mindless Zombies.
Skeleton Warrior The Skeleton Warrior is compelled by the will of Mortis to fight alongside the Undead.
PAGE 20
Mage
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 65 0 5 55 550 Lightning 40 AIR DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Marksman
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 90 0 5 60 500 Arrow 60 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40 20
Priest
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 75 0 5 60 475 Healing 10 LIFE HEAL ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Witch-Hunter
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 140 0 5 60 475 Sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50 40
Elementalist
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 95 0 5 200 1500 Summon 40 AIR SUMMON ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Imperial Assassin
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 135 0 5 140 1100 Dagger 60 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60 Poison 60 DEATH POISON 75 ANY
Imperial Knight
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 200 0 5 120 950 Lance 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75 15
Acolyte
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 50 0 5 20 80 Healing 10 LIFE HEAL ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
20 40
Apprentice
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 35 0 5 15 75 Lightning 40 AIR DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
15 30
Archer
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 45 0 5 20 70 Arrow 60 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
25
Squire
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 100 0 5 20 80 Sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
25
Titan
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 250 0 5 120 475 Smash 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60 20
Cleric
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 75 0 5 55 425 Healing 10 LIFE HEAL ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
20
Knight
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 150 0 5 60 475 Sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
PAGE 21
Paladin
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 175 30 5 200 1600 Long Sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
100 20
Prophetess
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 125 0 5 305 2050 Healing 10 LIFE HEAL ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
70 Cure 10 LIFE CURE 100 ALL
White Wizar d
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 125 0 5 210 2100 Lightning 40 AIR DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60
Defender of Faith
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 225 30 5 320 2100 Sword 70 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
125
Holy Avenger
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 250 0 5 300 2000 Long Sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75
Leaders
Arch-Angel
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 100 0 5 40 100 Healing 10 LIFE HEAL ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Archmage
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 65 0 5 60 150 Lightning 40 AIR DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Imperial Priest
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 100 0 5 160 1275 Healing 10 LIFE HEAL ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
80
Inquisitor
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 180 0 5 115 950 Mace 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75 50
Matriarch
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 100 0 5 140 1125 Healing 10 LIFE HEAL ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40 Cure 10 LIFE CURE 100 ALL
Wizard
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 95 0 5 120 1200 Lightning 40 AIR DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
45
Angel
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 225 0 5 225 1600 Holy Lance 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
125 30
Grand Inquisitor
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 210 0 5 190 800 Holy Mace 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
100
Hierophant
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 125 0 5 300 2000 Healing 10 LIFE HEAL ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
120 Revive 10 LIFE REVIVE 100 ANY
PAGE 22
Spirit of Fenrir
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 275 0 5 200 1975 Slash 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
90
Tenderfoot
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 60 0 5 50 95 Boost 70 LIFE BOOST ANY
Damage DAMAGE
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Yeti
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 230 0 5 200 700 Ice Breath 40 WATER DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Crossbowman
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 110 0 5 70 550 Crossbow 40 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Novice
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 90 0 5 70 325 Boost 70 LIFE BOOST ANY
Damage DAMAGE
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Rock Giant
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 310 0 5 225 1100 Punch 30 EARTH DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
90
Warrior
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 200 0 5 90 600 Warhammer40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
55
Pegasus Knight
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 150 0 5 60 150 Long Sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
Ranger
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 90 0 5 60 145 Falcon Arrow60 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Thief
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 100 0 5 25 95 Daggers 60 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Axe Thrower
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 65 0 5 25 100 Throwing 40 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
Axe
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
25
Dwarf
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 150 0 5 35 130 Warhammer40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Hill Giant
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 210 0 5 100 400 Tree Swipe 30 EARTH DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60
PAGE 23
Veteran
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 250 0 5 160 1275 Warhammer40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
80
Archdruidess
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 150 0 5 120 1450 Boost 35 LIFE BOOST ANY
Damage DAMAGE
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Cure 35 LIFE CURE 100 ANY
Elder One
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 400 0 5 895 3500 Lightning 20 AIR DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
80
Hermit
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 250 0 5 385 1000 Ice Shards 40 WATER DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
55 Lower Initiative 40 WATER LOWER 33 ALL
INITIATIVE
Son of Ymir
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 500 0 5 610 3050 Ice Sword 50 WATER DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
150 Frostbite 50 WATER FROSTBITE 85 ADJACENT
Venerable Warrior
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 275 0 5 220 1750 Great Axe 40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
100
Wolf Lord
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 225 0 5 250 2025 Ice Shards 40 WATER TRANSFORM ANY
SELF
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Frost Breath 40 WATER DAMAGE 80 ALL
Alchemist
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 120 0 5 120 325 Give Attack 10 LIFE GIVE ATTACK ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Druidess
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 120 0 5 95 850 Boost 70 LIFE BOOST ANY
Damage DAMAGE
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Cure 70 LIFE CURE 100 ANY
Flame Caster
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 130 0 5 140 1100 Flame Burst 40 FIRE DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
35
Forge Guardian
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 155 0 5 175 1100 Crossbow 40 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
70
Ice Giant
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 400 0 5 390 1950 Ice Shards 30 WATER DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
120
Mountaineer
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 225 0 5 190 1500 Ice Shards 40 WATER DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Tempest Giant
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 350 0 5 490 2450 Call 20 AIR DAMAGE ALL
Lightning
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
PAGE 24
Cultist
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 45 0 5 20 75 Fire rain 40 FIRE DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
15
Devil
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 170 0 5 70 275 Slash 35 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
Fiend
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 250 0 5 120 475 Slash 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60 Poison 50 DEATH POISON 40 ADJACENT
Gargoyle
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 90 40 5 100 400 Rock Shards 60 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Possessed
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 120 0 5 25 95 Short Sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
25
Berzerker
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 170 0 5 70 550 Battle Axes 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
Demon
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 270 0 5 175 850 Slash 35 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
80
Dwarf King
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 250 30 5 300 2500 Great Mace 20 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
100
Rune Master
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 300 0 5 310 2500 Axe 40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
65
Leaders
Dwarf Champion
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 150 0 5 50 120 Axe 30 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Engineer
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 135 0 5 85 175 Crossbow 50 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
King's Guar d
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 225 0 5 110 225 Battle Axe 40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60
Loremaster
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 95 0 5 85 175 Earth fall 30 EARTH DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Thief
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 150 0 5 50 120 Daggers 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
PAGE 25
Moloch
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 370 0 5 325 2275 Clobber 35 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
110
Onyx Gargoyle
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 170 65 5 810 2500 Onyx Shards60 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
85
Beast
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 420 0 5 825 3100 Slash 20 Weapon DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
70
Demon Lord
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 470 0 5 525 2650 Axe 40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
140
Incubus
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 135 0 5 90 1125 Petrify 20 EARTH PETRIFY ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Infernal Knight
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 270 0 20 215 1725 Infernal 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
Sword
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
100
Pandemoneus
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 135 0 5 225 2250 Fire Storm 40 FIRE DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60
Marble Gargoyle
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 150 60 5 410 1650 Rock Shards 60 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
65
Sorcerer
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 75 0 5 65 500 Fire rain 40 FIRE DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Witch
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 75 0 5 70 600 Polymorph 20 MIND TRANSFORM ANY
OTHER
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Anti-Paladin
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 220 0 5 130 1050 Battle Axe 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75
Demonologist
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 105 0 5 130 1325 Fire rain 40 FIRE DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
45
Doppelganger
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 120 0 5 120 500 Morph Self 80 MIND DOPPELGANGER ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Slash 80 WEAPON DAMAGE 80 ADJACENT
Hag
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 115 0 5 110 1400 Polymorph 20 MIND TRANSFORM ANY
OTHER
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
PAGE 26
Baroness
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 100 0 5 50 120 Fear 20 MIND FEAR ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Counselor
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 90 0 5 60 145 Crossbow 60 Weapon DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Duke
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 150 0 5 60 150 Infernal 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
Sword
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
Thief
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 100 0 5 25 95 Daggers 60 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Fighter
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 120 0 5 25 95 Sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
25
Ghost
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 45 0 5 20 75 Paralyze 20 MIND PARALYZE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Initiate
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 45 0 5 20 75 Pestilence 40 Death DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
15
Succubus
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 145 0 5 305 1500 Polymorph 20 MIND TRANSFORM ALL
OTHER
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Abyssal Devil
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 600 0 5 720 3600 Infernal 40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
Blade
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
140 Petrify 40 MIND PETRIFY 40 ADJACENT
Modeus
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 170 0 5 390 3100 Fire Storm 40 FIRE DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75
Overlord
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 570 0 5 775 3875 Infernal 40 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
Blade
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
170
Tiamath
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 495 0 5 1385 5000 Slash 20 Weapon DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
100 Lower 20 MIND LOWER 80 ALL
Damage DAMAGE
Leaders
Arch-Devil
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 65 0 5 60 150 Flame Burst 40 FIRE DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
PAGE 27
Dark Lord
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 200 0 5 145 600 Undead Blade50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75
Deathdragon
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 375 0 5 635 2550 Breath 35 Death DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
55
Necromancer
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 105 0 5 145 1150 Pestilence 40 Death DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
45
Shade
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 135 0 5 85 850 Paralyze 20 MIND PARALYZE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Skeleton Warrior
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 220 0 5 145 1150 Long sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75
Wraith
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
3 75 0 5 115 900 Pestilence 60 Death DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60
Death
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 125 0 5 315 900 Death Touch60 Death DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
100 Poison 50 DEATH POISON 50 ADJACENT
Werewolf
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 100 0 5 50 600 Slash 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Wyvern
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 225 0 5 160 500 Breath 35 Death DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
25
Doomdrake
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 300 0 5 335 1100 Breath 35 Death DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
40
Specter
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 90 0 5 40 700 Paralyze 20 MIND PARALYZE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Templar
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 160 0 5 75 600 Lance 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
Warlock
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 75 0 5 65 500 Pestilence 40 Death DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Zombie
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
2 170 0 5 75 600 Slash 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
PAGE 28
Elder Vampire
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 210 0 5 580 3300 Drain Life 40 Death DRAIN ALL
Overflow OVERFLOW
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
60
Phantom Warrior
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 320 0 5 350 2100 Undead 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
Blade
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
125 Paralyze 50 MIND PARALYZE 50 ADJACENT
Leaders
Banshee
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 100 0 5 45 115 Paralyze 20 MIND PARALYZE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
Death Knight
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 150 0 5 65 165 Undead 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
Blade
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
Lich Queen
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 65 0 5 65 165 Fire Storm 40 FIRE DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
Nosferat
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 90 0 5 40 100 Drain Life 50 Death DRAIN ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
10
Dracolich
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 525 0 5 1215 3350 Pestilential 35 Death DAMAGE ALL
Breath
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75
Dreadwyrm
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 450 0 5 900 3600 Plague 35 Death DAMAGE ALL
Breath
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
65 Poison 35 DEATH POISON 40 ALL
Lich
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 140 0 5 300 2425 Plague 40 Death DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
70
Skeleton Champion
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 270 0 5 240 1600 Long sword 50 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
100
Vampire
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 185 0 5 425 2300 Drain Life 40 Death DRAIN ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
50
Wight
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
4 105 0 5 200 900 Death Touch50 Death DAMAGE ANY
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
75 Drain Level 50 DEATHDRAIN_LEVEL 80 ANY
Archlich
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
5 170 0 5 470 3500 Plague 40 Death DAMAGE ALL
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
90
PAGE 29
Artifact Lore Allows the leader to equip Artifacts
Arcane Knowledge Allows the leader to read magical Tomes
Banner Bearer Allows the leader to equip Banners
Pathfinding Increases the leader movement by 20%
Arcane Lore Allows the leader to equip and use Orbs in battle
Leadership Allows the leader to take one more unit in his party
Travel Lore Allows the leader to wear magical Boots
Might Adds 25% damage to the attack of the leader
Natural Armor The leader will absorb 20% of all the damage he suffers
Arcane Power Allows the leader to equip and use Talismans in battle
Advanced Pathfinding Increases the leader movement by 25%
Weapon Master All the units in the leader's party will gain 25% more experience in battle
Accuracy Increases by  20% the chances to hit of the leader's attack
Keen-Sight The leader will see further in the fog of war
Natural Healing The leader will regenerate 15% of his hit points each day
Toughness Adds 20% more hit points to the leader
Incorruptible The leader becomes incorruptible to Thieves
Water Ward Protects the leader against the first water based attack in battle
Forestwalk The leader will suffer no move penalty in forests
Earth Ward Protects the leader against the first earth based attack in battle
First Strike Increases the initiative of the leader by 50%
Fire Ward Protects the leader against the first fire based attack in battle
Air Ward Protects the leader against the first air based attack in battle
Thief
LEVEL HP ARMOR REGEN XP XP WEAPON INIT SRC CLASS REACH
KILL NEXT
1 100 0 5 25 95 Daggers 60 Weapon DAMAGE ADJACENT
HEAL DAM ATTACK 2 INIT SRC CLASS POWER REACH QTY_HEAL QTY_DAM
30
PAGE 30
General :
ESC : Close interface / Cancel
ENTER : Close interface / Accepts
SPACE : Close interface
Iso :
F5 : Toggle top palette (resources/map/land)
B : Toggle banners
A : Capital (Not C, because it's already used)
P : Diplomacy (Not D, because it's already used)
S : Cast spell
X : Exchange
G : Guard
M : Continue move
TAB : Next leader
TAB+SHIFT : Previous leader
SPACE : Enter of turn
SHIFT : Show banner (while key pressed)
C : Center on stack
D : Center on stack's destination
Q : Quick save
Battle :
A : Toggle auto battle
D : Defend
R : Retreat
W : Wait
Tab : Toggle displayed party
Spell book/research :
1...5 : Switch to level page
Production
Producer
Prokopios Sotos
Lead Designer/Project Leader
Danny Bélanger
Lead Artist - 2D Character Art
Patrick Lambert
Lead Programmer
Frédéric Ferland
Programming 
Jean-François Marquis
Environment Art
Alexandre Rodrigue
Art
Raphaël Beaupré
Carl Boulay
Alex Gingras
Thomas Giroux
Vincent Lamontagne
Sébastien Primeau
Elie Rocray
Production Assistants
Eva Bunodière
Emanuel Protopapas
Erin Martel
Emanuel Protopapas
Cinematics
Natalie Guimond
Michel Therrien
Raphaël Beaupré
Elie Rocray
Alex Gingras
Writing/Manual
Calvin Campbell
Sound
Voice Actors
Doug Campbell
Karl Gerhardt Graap
Orla Johannes
Kersti Kass
Dave Lawson
Will Licari
Robert Saigec Taylor
Sound Designer/Engineer
Stéphane Brault
Assistant Sound Engineer
Simon Lamoureux
Music Designer/Composer
Philippe Charron
Sound Director
Paul Thibault
Quality Assurance
Quality Assurance Manager
Phillip DeRosa
Customer Support
Michel Chouinard
Nabil Yared
Quality Assurance Team
Yan Favreau Lippé
Ethan Petty
Ludovic Pinard
Sylvain Schmidt
Éric Tougas
PAGE 31
Before installing the game, make sure that you do the following:
• Make sure all other applications are closed. 
• V erify that your system meets the minimum requirements of the game. 
• Keep all documentation that came with the game. 
If you are having troubles starting the game you should do the following:
• Get the latest drivers for your sound and video card. 
• Reinstall Directx 8.0. 
• Install any patches available for the game (if any). 
• Make sure you remove any unnecessary icons on your taskbar (the area where the time
is displayed), since unneeded items reduce system performance. 
• Refer to the README file available with the game. 
For further assistance you can reach Strategy First Customer Support staff by:
Phone: (514) 844-2433 Mon to Friday from 9:00 – 18:00 EST
Fax:  (514) 844-4337 Attn: support
E-mail: support@strategyfirst.com
For faster service, please have the following information available when you call:
• Computer brand and processor speed. 
• Memory available. 
• T ype of operating system. 
• T ype of video and sound card. 
• V ersion of DirectX installed on your system. 
Marketing
Product Managers
Prokopios Sotos
Adam Phillips
Director of Marketing
Steve Milburn
Director of Communications
Christina Ginger
Packaging and Design
Kenneth Green
Philippe Brindamour
Web Designer
Hugo Trépanier
Serge Mongeau
PR Associates
Kelly Ekins
Michèle Fortier
Marketing Assistant
Ryan Bastien
President
Don McFatridge
Senior V.P.
Brian Clarke
V.P. Business Development
Steve Wall
V.P. Product Development
Richard Therrien
V.P. Systems
Dave Hill
Director of Product Development
Jamie McNeely
Executive Producer
Paul Thibault
Graphics Manager
Natalie Guimond
Distribution Infogrames Inc.
V.P. Third Party/Value/Affiliates
Ezra Chen 
Senior Buyer
Gardner Wong 
Product Line Liaison
Brian McCreary 
Senior V.P.
Wim Stocks
PAGE 32
PLEASE READ THIS LICENSE CAREFULL Y BEFORE USING THE SOFTW ARE. THIS DOCUMENT IS AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND STRATEGY FIRST
INC. (THE ìCOMPANYî). THE COMPANY IS WILLING TO LICENSE THE ENCLOSED SOFTWARE TO YOU ONL Y ON THE CONDITION THA T YOU ACCEPT ALL
THE TERMS CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT. BY USING THE SOFTWARE YOU ARE AGREEING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE.
1. Ownership and License. This is a license agreement and NOT an agreement for sale. The software contained in this package (the ìSoftwareî) is the prop-
erty of the Company and/or its Licensors. You own the disk/CD on which the Software is recorded, but the Company and/or its Licensors retain title to the
Software and related documentation. Your rights to use the Software are specified in this Agreement, and the Company and/or its Licensors retain all rights
not expressly granted to you in this Agreement.
2. Permitted Uses. You are granted the following right to the Software :
(a) Right to Install and Use. You may install and use the Software on a single computer. If you wish to use the Software on more than one computer, please
contact the Company for information concerning an upgraded license allowing use of the Software with additional computers.
(b) Right to Copy. You may make and maintain one copy of the Software for backup and archival purposes, provided that the original and each copy of the
Software are kept in your possession.
3. Prohibited Uses. The following uses of the Software are prohibited. If you wish to use the Software in a manner prohibited below, please contact the
Company at the address, phone, or fax numbers listed above for information regarding a ìSpecial Use License. îOtherwise, you may NOT :
(a) Make or distribute copies of the Software or documentation, or any portion thereof, except as expressly provided in this Agreement.
(b) Use any backup or archival copy of the Software (or allow someone else to use such copy) for any purpose other than to replace the original copy in the
event it is destroyed or becomes defective;
(c) Alter, decompile, modify reverse engineer or disassemble the Software, create derivative works based upon the Software, or make any attempt to bypass,
unlock or disable any protective or initialization system on the Software;
(d) Rent, lease, sub-license, time-share, or transfer the Software or documentation, or your rights under this Agreement.
(e) Remove or obscure any copyright or trademark notice(s) on the Software or documentation;
(f) Upload or transmit the Software, or any portion thereof, to any electronic bulletin board, network, or other type of multi-use computer system regardless
of purpose;
(g) Include the Software in any commercial products intended for manufacture, distribution, or sale; or
(h) Include the Software in any product containing immoral, scandalous, controversial, derogatory, obscene, or offensive works.
4. Termination. This license is effective upon the first use, installation, loading or copying of the Software. You may terminate this Agreement at any time
by destruction and disposal of the Software and all related documentation. This license will terminate automatically without notice from the Company if
you fail to comply with any provisions of this license. Upon termination, you shall destroy all copies of the Software and any accompanying documentation. 
All provisions of this Agreement as to warranties, limitation of liability, remedies or damages shall survive termination.
5. Copyright Notice. The Company and/or our Licensors hold valid copyright of the Software. Nothing in this Agreement constitutes a waiver of any right
under Canadian Copyright law or any other federal or provincial law. This program is protected by Canadian federal and international copyright laws.
6. Miscellaneous. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of Canada and the Province of Quebec. If any provision, or any portion, of this Agreement
is found to be unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable, it shall be severed from, and shall in no way affect the validity or enforceability of the remain-
ing provisions of the Agreement.
7. Limited Warranty and Disclaimer of Wa r r a n t y. For a period of 90 days from the date on which you purchased the Software, the Company warrants that
the media on which the Software is supplied will be free from defects in materials and workmanship under normal use. If the Software fails to conform to
this warranty, you may, as your sole and exclusive remedy, obtain a replacement free of charge if you return the Software to us with a dated proof of pur-
chase. The Company does not warrant that the Software or its operations or functions will meet your requirements, nor that the use thereof will be without
interruption or error .
EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS W ARRANTY SET FORTH ABOVE, THE COMPANY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING AND
WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS
WARRANTY SET FORTH ABOVE, THE COMPANY DOES NOT WA R R A N T, GUARANTEE OR MAKE ANY REPRESENTA TION REGARDING THE USE OR THE
R E S U LTS OF THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE IN TERMS OF ITS CORRECTNESS, ACCURACY , RELIABILITY, CURRENTNESS OR OTHERW I S E .
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COMPANY OR ITS EMPLOYEES OR LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE LICENSE GRANTED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT INCLUDING AND WITHOUT LIMITAT I O N ,
LOSS OF USE, LOSS OF DA TE, LOSS OF INCOME OR PROFIT, OR OTHER LOSS SUSTAINED AS A RESULT OF INJURY TO ANY PERSON, OR LOSS OF OR
DAMAGE TO PROPERTY , OR CLAIMS OF THIRD PARTIES, EVEN IF THE COMPANY OR AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COMPANY HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, IN NO EVENT SHALL LIABILITY OF THE COMPANY FOR DAMAGES WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFT-
WARE EXCEED THE AMOUNTS ACTUALL Y PAID BY YOU, IF ANY, FOR THE SOFTWA R E .
SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE 
L I M I TA TION OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT
A P P LY TO YOU.
A C K N O W L E D G E M E N T
YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ THIS AGREEMENT, UNDERSTAND IT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ITS TERMS AND CONDITIONS. YOU
ALSO AGREE THA T THIS AGREEMENT IS THE COMPLETE AND EXCLUSIVE STATEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND THE COMPANY AND
SUPERCEDES ALL PROPOSALS OR PRIOR ENDORSEMENTS, ORAL OR WRITTEN, AND ANY OTHER COMMUNICA TIONS BETWEEN YOU AND THE 
C O M PANYOR ANY REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COMPANY RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT.
PAGE 33

